welcome brodie
Following the death of the Super-Ras Al Ghul, Tiger Claw has led the unspecified Foot Cultists into obtaining the Scroll of the Demodragon and a special control amulet called the "Seal of the Ancients" that would enable him to summon the demodragon Kavaxas. When Kavaxas is summoned from the Netherworld, Tiger Claw plans to use Kavaxas' wish-granting abilities to revive the Ras Al Ghul. Upon demonstrating the revival ability on Rahzar who fell in an underwater battle against Leatherhead, Kavaxas states that he will need the Kuro Kabuto that contains Ras Al Ghul's mental energies. Upon Rahzar and Tiger Claw reclaiming the Kuro Kabuto after Kavaxas drained the soul out of Ras Al Ghul's former right-hand man Hattori Tatsu, Kavaxas states that they will need the Ras Al Ghul's heart for the revival to occur. The Foot Clan obtains the Ras Al Ghul's heart that was in the possession of Don Vizioso. Upon Ras Al Ghul's heart being placed on his corpse, Kavaxas begins to work on reviving Ras Al Ghul as the Zombie Ras Al Ghul. This goes against what Tiger Claw eventually planned when Undead Ras Al Ghul destroys the Seal of the Ancients which enables Kavaxas to raise the spirits of the Netherworld in order to rule both worlds. While Splinter's ghost helps those fighting on the surface, Michelangelo managed to use gum to stick the Seal of the Ancients back together enabling him to have Kavaxas undo his damages and open the portal to the Netherworld as the Zombie Ras Al Ghul drags Kavaxas back to the Netherworld.

Afterwards, the Robins face different challenges. This includes the return of Lord Dregg when he collaborates with Newtralizer, being transported to Miyamoto Usagi's reality where they help to protect the pug Kintaro from the evil gray wolf Jei, an adventure featuring an alternate future ruled by mutant animals, and another adventure involving the return of Savanti Romero where he collaborates with Count Dracula to make Earth more habitable for monsters.

The Robins later reunite with their 1987 counterparts when they face the return of Bebop and Rocksteady, who are recruited by the Ras Al Ghul and the Kraang's counterparts. They plan to conquer the Earths of both the 1987 and 2012 realities with a fully powered Technodrome after their Bebop and Rocksteady were accidentally left behind. While the Robins and their allies fight off a horde of Foot Soldiers from the 1987–1996 series reality and the 2012 Rock Soldiers led by Traag and Granitor, Bebop and Rocksteady discover Ras Al Ghul and Krang's treacherous scheme to destroy the Earth and choose to become heroes in order to save the planet.
Co-creators Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko wrote the majority of the finale; DiMartino wrote parts one, three, and four, and Konietzko assisted with parts three and four. Aaron Ehasz, co-executive producer and head writer of the show, wrote part two. Ethan Spaulding directed part one, Giancarlo Volpe directed part two, and Joaquim Dos Santos directed parts three and four.[8] Dos Santos was nominated for an Annie Award for his directing of part three, "Into the Inferno".[7] Although "Sozin's Comet" was originally written as a three-part story, the creators noticed that the length had grown beyond what they had predicted from the initial script. To avoid pacing issues, they split the final part in two, adding several scenes to fill the remaining time.[9]

The cast of "Sozin's Comet" includes all of the key characters from season three. Protagonists Aang, Katara, Sokka, and Toph are voiced by Zach Tyler Eisen (in his final role before his retirement), Mae Whitman, Jack DeSena, and Jessie Flower respectively.[10] Iroh is voiced by Greg Baldwin and Zuko is voiced by Dante Basco.[11] Grey DeLisle and Mark Hamill voice the two antagonists, Azula and Ozai, respectively.[10] The co-creators also lend their voices to two minor characters in the third part, "Into the Inferno".[9]

The animated effects in the finale were directed by Jae-Myung Yoo.[12] A particularly tricky part to animate was the climactic scene where protagonist Aang tries to overpower antagonist Ozai. Konietzko originally pitched the scene to DiMartino and Ehasz, but the three of them encountered difficulties communicating how the scene would look. They ended up drawing a fully colored storyboard to send to the animation studios.[12] Additionally, the finale featured a significant amount of fire compared to previous episodes, and were all hand-drawn by Yoo's team. Dos Santos observed that the fire effects alone cost more than most shows spend on an entire season.[12] Although Avatar is not considered anime because of its American origin, Tasha Robinson of the SciFi Channel observed that "Avatar blurs the line between anime and [US] domestic cartoons until it becomes irrelevant."[13] An IGN reviewer commented that "Sozin's Comet" "had that classic anime-look that I've always loved to see when watching old anime movies. The story through the animation was perfectly done."[3]

The finale's music was written and composed by "The Track Team", led by Jeremy Zuckerman.[8] Unlike past episodes, a music track produced by a live orchestra was used, rather than one in MIDI format.[9] According to Konietzko, one of the most challenging scenes to pair musically was the Agni Kai duel between Zuko and Azula. The scene's pairing of moody and melancholic music with intense action was inspired by Ghost in the Shell, and a decision was made to quiet the sound effects to let the music set the tone, inspired by Blade Runner.[12]

Avatar: The Last Airbender borrows extensively from East Asian art to create its fictional universe.[14][15] Four "bending" arts exist in the universe; they are based on different styles and variations of Chinese martial arts: Baguazhang for airbending, Hung Gar and Southern Praying Mantis for earthbending, Northern Shaolin for firebending, and tai chi for waterbending.[16] The fight scenes were choreographed by Sifu Kisu, who performed and filed every fight sequence with Konietzko to serve as reference for the animators.[12] Additionally, the finale borrowed heavily from the Taoist concept of balance and order. The Avatar, an incarnation of a divine being,[17] is supposed to maintain the world's order.

Nickelodeon originally broadcast "Sozin's Comet" from 8:00 pm to 10:00 pm EST on July 19, 2008.[18] Just ten days later, on July 29, the "Book 3: Fire – Volume 4" DVD was released, which contained the four episodes as well as episodes 56 and 57, audio commentary from the series' co-creators, cast, and crew, and a comic book.[1]